# Frontend Documentation

Frontend documentation still underway and is contained within this readme.

## Notes

### Directory structure

The usual convention is followed, with the routes folder containing the `+page.svelte` and other route-related files, and the `lib` folder containing everything else. In general, components are put in `routes` if they are related to just one route and don't need to be shared among routes.

Within the `lib` folder, the `codegen` folder contains all automatically generated code, the `data` folder contains the Svelte Query hook layer which uses the `codegen`, the `components` contain all shared Svelte components, with the `ui` subfolder reserved for components initially generated using Shadcn-svelte. The `state` folder contains all shared runes and other Svelte state management.

### Npm commands

None yet that aren't given by default.

### Code generation process

The [Orval](https://orval.dev/) library is used to generate a client SDK based on the OpenAPI schema generated by the backend. The generated axios functions and types are used to create a custom hook layer with [Svelte Query](https://sveltequery.vercel.app/)

The only part of the frontend-backend communication that needs to be manually crafted (for HTTP routes) are the mutation schemas, as the ones generated by Orval do not easily allow for using custom error messages. These are made using zod and the error messages are taken directly from the generated schema from the backend - not the OpenAPI schema, but a set of typescript files generated directly by the backend's domain logic.

### Other

Note that the frontend is currently implemented assuming email confirmation is mandatory. On the backend this is not the case.
